I want you to hit me as hard as you can
hi I'm Luke Ryan for Joe Blow calm and
welcome to movie endings explained where
we'll be taking a look at some of the
more ambiguous and discussed movie
endings that have left audiences
debating their true meaning long after
the credits of rolled previously on
movie endings explained we took a look
at the 1982 sci-fi classic Blade Runner
from director Ridley Scott's a
rain-drenched neon-lit dystopian future
the backdrop for a manhunt as Harrison
Ford's Rick Deckard a Blade Runner
tracks down rogue replicants synthetic
androids built for purpose but with too
much emotion to stick to their jobs
breaking free in an attempt to become
more human
the primary mystery of Blade Runner as
the film reaches its finale is whether
or not Deckard in a cruel twist is a
replicant himself it's an idea that has
no definitive answer
especially as Ridley Scott believes the
Deckard is a replicant and Harrison Ford
sees his character as human but most of
all because it's never outright revealed
so over 30 years later when a sequel was
announced fans of the original film were
eager to see if the Deckard mystery
would be solved particularly as Harrison
Ford had signed on to reprise his role
Blade Runner 2049 directed by Denis
Villeneuve follows the same world 30
years after the events of the original
film our main character is agent Kay
played by Ryan Gosling a Blade Runner
only this time we're shown right away
that he is a replicant himself in Blade
Runner the creator of replicants was
Tyrell but now nyan de Wallis played by
Jared Leto oversees the production of
replicants at the beginning of the film
kay is sent on a mission to retire a
farmer known to be a rogue replicant and
on the farm he finds a box buried under
a tree
it contains human remains a woman who
had a baby and died during childbirth
only they find a serial number
her bones a replicant this is thought to
be impossible and thus K continues
tracking the case to find out more about
the supposedly contends his way to Las
Vegas where he meets Rick Deckard who's
been in hiding for all these years we
the audience realized very quickly that
the female replicant who died during
childbirth was in fact Rachel from the
first film knowing that she left with
Deckard at the end of Blade Runner
naturally you would assume that they had
the child together
and so the Deckard mystery thickens but
concurrent with this is the mystery of
caves true origin himself he knows he is
a replicant and is fully aware of having
fake memory implants to make him feel
more human and yet he finds himself
questioning whether his memory of hiding
a wooden horse as a child is actually
real when he finds the wooden horse it
leads him straight to Deckard at this
point we begin to suspect that Kay may
still be a replicant but he may also be
the replicants the child of Rachel and
Deckard
Deckard is captured and Kaye meets a
group of rebel replicants freedom
fighters who operate underground and
helped to keep Rachel's child safe and
secret Deckard only wanted his baby to
be safe and she is when the time comes I
will show her to the world and she will
lead our army she of course Richard had
a daughter with my own eyes I saw her
come I dressed her in blue when it was
time for her to go there was a boy that
you had that is just a piece of the
puzzle
so now we know that K is not the
replicant child who by this point is the
hottest target around with Wallace doing
everything he can to track this anomaly
down to Wallace he can't produce
replicants fast enough and is trying to
create replicants that can procreate but
he's failing the replicant child would
be everything he needs to crack the code
of changing the replicant production
business forever but back to the rebel
replicants they believe that the
daughter will be the key to the
replicants revolution and they want cave
to kill Deckard at the end of the film
instead of killing Deckard Kay saves him
killing Wallace his right-hand woman
loved and takes him to meet his daughter
earlier on in the film Kay had gone to
Stella in laboratory to meet a woman who
lives in isolation due to her illness
and creates memory implants for
replicants he asks her to check if his
memory of the wooden horse is real
[Music]
someone loved this yes this happened
when Kay finds out the child was a girl
he remembers an Estella lines reaction
to seeing the memory her emotional
response how she had been kept safe and
secret
she is Deckard and Rachael's daughter
injured from the fight with love Kay
lays down on the steps outside the
laboratory as Deckard goes inside to
finally see his daughter for the very
first time
you
at Bladerunner 20 49 while the central
mystery of the story the replicant child
is wrapped up rather neatly and needs
little explaining the overarching
mystery of Deckard's true nature still
indoors is Anna a half human half
replicant or is she the first fully
fledged child born of two other
replicants when decade was captured
Wallis insinuates to him that when he
first met Rachel all those years ago it
was all by design that Tyrell had
foresaw the key to the future of
replicant production in engineering
reproduction Wallis tells Deckard that
perhaps his meeting with Rachel was
programmed that he was built to fall in
love with her which would of course
negate any feelings he had for Rachel as
it was all pre-planned and built into
his wiring Deckard's response to this is
simple I know what's real
and that line that takes Bladerunner
2049 from a great film to an outstanding
one the choice to continue to leave
Deckard's origin up for debate was the
right move however not everyone feels
this way about it
Ridley Scott producer on the film and
one of the uncredited writers sees this
matter in a very black-and-white way he
says Tyrell is a trillionaire he has
created perfect beings that for all
intents and purposes there is no telling
the difference from humans then he says
you know what I'm going to create an AI
I'll have a male and a female they will
not know that they're both a eyes I'll
have them meet each other they will fall
in love they will consummate and they
will have a child that's the first film
the second film is what happens to the
baby and yet keeping in Blade Runner
tradition of the artists working on the
film having differing opinions directed
Denis Villeneuve sees things a little
bit less straightforward
he says the beauty of Harrison Ford's
character is the idea of doubt the
paranoia the fact that the character is
not sure about his own identity and the
audience is unsure instead of bringing a
certain answer we increase the paranoia
and how these characters deal with a
reality that is shifting in front of
their eyes not knowing where they are
from not sure if they are objects or
subjects I like to keep that question
alive vulnerability that has provoked
inside him is his weak point not being
sure if he's real or not I know Ridley
would disagree with me but for me it's
good that we don't know the answer now I
would tend to side with the director on
this one as whichever side of the fence
you would like to sit on Deckard being a
human or a replicant you can comfortably
enjoy both films now with your answer
feeling justified there's wriggle room
for the audience's imagination when
Deckard says I know what's real he could
mean I know I'm human and I know that
I'm real or he could mean I know I'm not
human but that doesn't mean that
anything I've experienced and loved and
lost isn't real
you
[Music]